README.md, before:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# gguidance <a href="https://teunbrand.github.io/gguidance/"><img src="man/figures/logo.png" align="right" height="138" alt="gguidance website" /></a>

<!-- badges: start -->

[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/teunbrand/gguidance/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/teunbrand/gguidance/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml)
[![Lifecycle:
experimental](https://img.shields.io/badge/lifecycle-experimental-orange.svg)](https://lifecycle.r-lib.org/articles/stages.html#experimental)
[![CRAN
status](https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/gguidance)](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=gguidance)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/teunbrand/gguidance/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/teunbrand/gguidance)
<!-- badges: end -->

The goal of gguidance is to provide additional guide functionality to
the ggplot2 ecosystem.

## Installation

You can install the development version of gguidance from
[GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("teunbrand/gguidance")
```

## Example

Let’s first set up a basic plot to experiment with:

``` r
library(gguidance)
#> Loading required package: ggplot2

base <- ggplot(mpg, aes(displ, hwy, colour = cty)) +
  geom_point() +
  labs(
    x = "Engine displacement",
    y = "Highway miles per gallon",
    col = "City miles\nper gallon"
  ) +
  theme(axis.line = element_line())
```

The gguidance package offers a selection of what it calls ‘complete
guides’. These complete guides can just be drop-in replacement of
regular guides, which you can specify using ggplot2’s `guides()`
function or using the `guide` argument in scales. In the example below,
we’re using two custom variants of vanilla guides, namely
`guide_axis_base()` and `guide_colbar()`. These custom variants have
additional options that allow a greater degree of customisation:

- The axis guide has an option for bidirectional ticks.
- The colourbar automatically recognises out-of-bounds values and
  displays this with a cap.

``` r
base + 
  scale_colour_viridis_c(
    limits = c(NA, 30),
    guide = "colbar"
  ) +
  guides(
    x = guide_axis_base(bidi = TRUE)
  )
```

<img src="man/figures/README-full_guides-1.svg" width="80%" style="display: block; margin: auto;" />

Besides complete guides, gguidance also has incomplete guides that can
be composed. The `ggplot2::guide_axis_stack()` is an axis composition
function that can be used to display multiple guides. Here, we use a
‘primitive’ guide (incomplete building block) to display a range on the
axis. By stacking it with a regular axis the primitive guide is
completed.

``` r
# A partial guide to display a bracket
efficient_bracket <- primitive_bracket(
  # Keys determine what is displayed
  key = key_range_manual(start = 25, end = Inf, name = "Efficient"),
  bracket = "square",
  # We want vertical text
  theme = theme(
    legend.text = element_text(angle = 90, hjust = 0.5),
    axis.text.y.left = element_text(angle = 90, hjust = 0.5)
  )
)

base + guides(y = guide_axis_stack("axis", efficient_bracket))
```

<img src="man/figures/README-primitives-1.svg" width="80%" style="display: block; margin: auto;" />

The gguidance package extends this guide composition concept beyond the
axes for other types of guides. In the example below we compose a
‘sandwich’: a central guide flanked by two others. Because our bracket
is a primitive, it does not matter what aesthetic it displays and we can
re-use it for the sandwich. I’ve yet to write the vignette on
composition.

``` r
base + 
  scale_colour_viridis_c(
    guide = compose_sandwich(
      middle = gizmo_density(), 
      text = "axis_base",
      opposite = efficient_bracket
    )
  )
```

<img src="man/figures/README-composition-1.svg" width="80%" style="display: block; margin: auto;" />

Commit message:

Rename {gguidance} to {legendry} (#25)
* Rename infrastructural parts

* rename ggproto doc

* rename theme settings

* rename remaining remnants

* rebuild readme

README.md, after:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# legendry <a href="https://teunbrand.github.io/legendry/"><img src="man/figures/logo.png" align="right" height="138" alt="legendry website" /></a>

<!-- badges: start -->

[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/teunbrand/legendry/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/teunbrand/legendry/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml)
[![Lifecycle:
experimental](https://img.shields.io/badge/lifecycle-experimental-orange.svg)](https://lifecycle.r-lib.org/articles/stages.html#experimental)
[![CRAN
status](https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/legendry)](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=legendry)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/teunbrand/legendry/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/teunbrand/legendry)
<!-- badges: end -->

The goal of legendry is to provide additional guide functionality to the
ggplot2 ecosystem.

## Installation

You can install the development version of legendry from
[GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("teunbrand/legendry")
```

## Example

Let’s first set up a basic plot to experiment with:

``` r
library(legendry)
#> Loading required package: ggplot2

base <- ggplot(mpg, aes(displ, hwy, colour = cty)) +
  geom_point() +
  labs(
    x = "Engine displacement",
    y = "Highway miles per gallon",
    col = "City miles\nper gallon"
  ) +
  theme(axis.line = element_line())
```

The legendry package offers a selection of what it calls ‘complete
guides’. These complete guides can just be drop-in replacement of
regular guides, which you can specify using ggplot2’s `guides()`
function or using the `guide` argument in scales. In the example below,
we’re using two custom variants of vanilla guides, namely
`guide_axis_base()` and `guide_colbar()`. These custom variants have
additional options that allow a greater degree of customisation:

- The axis guide has an option for bidirectional ticks.
- The colourbar automatically recognises out-of-bounds values and
  displays this with a cap.

``` r
base + 
  scale_colour_viridis_c(
    limits = c(NA, 30),
    guide = "colbar"
  ) +
  guides(
    x = guide_axis_base(bidi = TRUE)
  )
```

<img src="man/figures/README-full_guides-1.svg" width="80%" style="display: block; margin: auto;" />

Besides complete guides, legendry also has incomplete guides that can be
composed. The `ggplot2::guide_axis_stack()` is an axis composition
function that can be used to display multiple guides. Here, we use a
‘primitive’ guide (incomplete building block) to display a range on the
axis. By stacking it with a regular axis the primitive guide is
completed.

``` r
# A partial guide to display a bracket
efficient_bracket <- primitive_bracket(
  # Keys determine what is displayed
  key = key_range_manual(start = 25, end = Inf, name = "Efficient"),
  bracket = "square",
  # We want vertical text
  theme = theme(
    legend.text = element_text(angle = 90, hjust = 0.5),
    axis.text.y.left = element_text(angle = 90, hjust = 0.5)
  )
)

base + guides(y = guide_axis_stack("axis", efficient_bracket))
```

<img src="man/figures/README-primitives-1.svg" width="80%" style="display: block; margin: auto;" />

The legendry package extends this guide composition concept beyond the
axes for other types of guides. In the example below we compose a
‘sandwich’: a central guide flanked by two others. Because our bracket
is a primitive, it does not matter what aesthetic it displays and we can
re-use it for the sandwich. I’ve yet to write the vignette on
composition.

``` r
base + 
  scale_colour_viridis_c(
    guide = compose_sandwich(
      middle = gizmo_density(), 
      text = "axis_base",
      opposite = efficient_bracket
    )
  )
```

<img src="man/figures/README-composition-1.svg" width="80%" style="display: block; margin: auto;" />
